#Lab Tasks

For lab tasks from here on out, questions that require exploration and responding to on this markdown page will be in bolded text. You should respond to them directly within this markdown file. Markdown is effectively a plaintext, lighweight markup language that is designed to be converted into HTML; more simply, it's some text and symbols you can put into a document that will turn into pretty HTML.
Tasks that specify work to do without a written response will be bulleted.
If you're ever confused about what you need to do for a given task, ask.

## Part #1: exploring the node.js project
Study the project you have cloned. Run it according to the instrucitons in the README, including running the tests. Answer the following questions by editing this file.  This will give you a chance to play with markdown.

> Protip: Using Google to gain additional knowledge or support your conjectures about how something works is great! It's important that you think about everything and come to an understanding, though, so don't use Google as a scapegoat to get the questions done quickly or you will regret it!

#####What is the purpose of app.js? Explain what happens when a user is trying to access a page "kittens", when a user is trying to access the page "petForm", and when the user submits a form on "petForm". Explain what a "route" is.

> app.js creates a web server and defines how it responds when certain things are requested. When a user tries to access
> `/kittens`, the server responds with "Page under construction!" and that's pretty much it. For `/petForm`, it sends
> `petForm.html`. When a user submits a petForm, the server responds with the name of the pet and the length of the name/string.
> A route is a URL pattern that the server knows how to respond to. 

#####What ~~is~~ *are* the contents of the "public" folder? What ~~is~~ *are* each of the html files there and how are they referenced in app.js?

> The public folder contains files to be used on the client end, like the images, and the css/html/js files. The html files are the files that are sent
> when a particular route is requested, and they are referenced by their filename as in `about.html`.

#####In your project change the message that appears when the user is trying to access the page "kittens". Describe what you did and how it worked.

> We went into the app.js file and changed the text that was inside of the `res.send("")` function. Once the changes were made, the server was restarted
> and the page was updated. (The changes were also committed and pushed.)

#####Also change the message that a user sees when they are trying to find a page that doesn't exist.

> Okay. Done.

#####Describe what happens when you submit a form on petForm page. What are the form parameters in petForm? What is the method for the form? Where is the form submission handled in the project? How are parameters extracted? How is the resulting message generated? How is this different from accessing the page petForm the first time (to see the form)?

> See above. The parameter is newPet. The method used is `post`. The form submission is handled in app.js. And the parameters are extracted by req.body. 
> The message is generated by concatenating the newPet name and the length of the name. This is different from accessing the page the first time because
> the intial call uses a get method while the post method is used when clicking the submit button.

#####Where is client-side Javascript defined? Name file(s) in which it is used.

> It is defined in the clientJavascript.js inside the public folder. It is used in the index.html file. 

#####Where is server-side Javascript helper file defined? Where can it be used? Add a function to it and experiment with where you can call this function.

> The serverJavascript.js file is under the main directory of files and folders. It can be used only for server side js needs. 
> We created a function that returns the size of an array, and we implemented the function in app.js to display how many pets have been submitted to an
> array that is defined in app.js.

#####What is the purpose of package.json file? What's in it, and what does it mean?

> Package.json contains information about dependencies and `npm` used the info to install dependencies. 

#####What's in ~~.gitgnore~~ *gitignore* file? What's the purpose of it?

> It tells git what to ignore. Specifically, that keeps stuff like dependencies and test results out of the repository.


## Part #2: exploring testing

#####Find the testing file, describe where it is located and what it is testing. Run karma (the testing engine) as specified in the Readme and describe results. Do not edit any files at this time.

#####After having set up Travis CI with your forked project, play around the page for your project (build history, settings, branches, etc) and describe at least 3 features you think would be useful when troubleshooting a broken project.

#####What was the build status of your project right after you got everything set up? Use Travis to find any problems, and describe what failed, if anything. (Which files, what lines, why did failure occur, etc.)

#####Fix any problems described in the previous question. Describe how you fixed them. Push your fix to GitHub and post a link to the passing build (from build history) here.

- Study jasmine testing syntax. Think of a Javascript function, describe its behavior by writing tests for it (this is test-driven development, or TDD). Add the function, run the tests. (Actually do this. Don't forget to commit your changes!)

## Part #3: adding a GPA calculator

- Add a page to the project (don't forget to add it to git) that has a form for letter grades and credits for three classes.

- In TDD fashion, add tests for functions needed to compute the GPA and then implement the functions themselves. Note, however, that karma doesn't work with exports, so after you have tested the functions, you would need to create copies of them that you are exporting. This is awkward and will be fixed in subsequent node setups. Also make sure to add the file that you are testing to karma.conf.js.

- Add a route to app.js to display the GPA on the resulting page.

- Add the basic html to the send so that the GPA is displayed as an html page. Don't add too much: later we will be using various libraries to take care of generating html.

- As you are working, don't forget to change drivers in pair-programming, practice TDD, write comments, and make frequent commits. As before, at the end just push all the changes to github.

